CCO-15: update process for upgrading manually maintained creds (#36182)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/manually-maintained-credentials-upgrade.adoc

[id="manually-maintained-credentials-upgrade_{context}"]
= Upgrading clusters with manually maintained credentials

The Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) `upgradable` status for a cluster with manually maintained credentials is `false` by default.

> * For minor releases, for example, from 4.7 to 4.8, this status prevents you from upgrading until you have addressed any updated permissions and changed the `upgradable` status to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For minor releases, for example, from 4.7 to 4.8, this status prevents you from upgrading until you have addressed any updated permissions and annotated the cloudcredential.operator.openshift.io resource to indicate the updated permissions have been updated as needed for the next version (this will cause the upgradeable status to switch to 'true').
```

> * For z-stream releases, for example, from 4.7.12 to 4.7.13, the upgrade is not blocked, but the credentials must still be updated for the new release.

Reviewer 2: @joelddiaz do we expect permissions update in credentials request for z-stream releases? I assumed the answer in no and that is why we do not have `upgradable = false` guard here

> * For z-stream releases, for example, from 4.7.12 to 4.7.13, the upgrade is not blocked, but the credentials must still be updated for the new release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For z-stream releases, for example, from 4.7.12 to 4.7.13, the upgrade is not blocked.
```
By policy we do not introduce new permissions in the z-stream, so there is no need to do the permissions check/update dance for z-stream at all.

. To indicate that the cluster is ready to upgrade:

.. Log in to the {product-title} CLI as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.. Edit the `CloudCredential` object to add an `upgradeable-to` annotation within the `metadata` field:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit cloudcredential cluster
----
+
.Text to add
+
[source,yaml]
----
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      cloudcredential.openshift.io/upgradeable-to: <version_number>
...
----
+
Where `<version_number>` is the version you are upgrading to, in the format `x.y.z`. For example, `4.7.0` for {product-title} 4.7.0.

. Use the *Administrator* perspective of the web console to determine if the CCO is upgradeable. Note that it may take several minutes for the status to change.

.. Navigate to *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings*.

.. To view the CCO status details, click *cloud-credential* in the *Cluster Operators* list.

.. If the *Upgradeable* status in the *Conditions* section is *False*, verify that the manually maintained credentials on your cluster match the updated `CredentialsRequest` custom resource for the new release.

> When the *Upgradeable* status in the *Conditions* section is *True*, you can begin the {product-title} upgrade.

Reviewer: For this Procedure section I think we just need to move things around so the order makes more sense. Something like this:

STEP Extract the CredentialsRequest resources from the release image being upgraded to (just like the steps performed before installation).
STEP Create any new Secrets needed (for CredentialsRequest resources that are new to the release image being upgraded to).
STEP Update the permissions of any existing credentials stored in Secrets that already exist if the equivalent CredentialsRequest resources have changed their permissions requirements.

Once all the new Secrets are created, and any permissions changes for previous Secrets have been updated, it is time to signal that the cluster is clear for upgrade. To indicate that the cluster is ready to upgrade:

.. Log in to the {product-title} CLI as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.. Edit the `CloudCredential` object to add an `upgradeable-to` annotation within the `metadata` field:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit cloudcredential cluster
----
+
.Text to add
+
[source,yaml]
----
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      cloudcredential.openshift.io/upgradeable-to: <version_number>
...
----
+
Where `<version_number>` is the version you are upgrading to, in the format `x.y.z`. For example, `4.7.0` for {product-title} 4.7.0.

When the *Upgradeable* status in the *Conditions* section is *True*, you can begin the {product-title} upgrade.

[id="manually-maintained-credentials-upgrade_{context}"]
= Upgrading clusters with manually maintained credentials

The Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) `upgradable` status for a cluster with manually maintained credentials is `false` by default.

> * For minor releases, for example, from 4.7 to 4.8, this status prevents you from upgrading until you have addressed any updated permissions and annotated the `CloudCredential` resource to indicate that the permissions are updated as needed for the next version. This annotation changes the `upgradable` status to `true`.

Reviewer 3: @jeana-redhat , because this function was indroduced from 4.8 version, so is it better  to change the example `from 4.7 to 4.8` to `from 4.8 to 4.9` ?

Author: This one is tricky, since 4.9 isn't released. The other two examples can definitely be changed to e.g. `4.8.10 to 4.8.11` or `4.8.0`, but I think I need to leave this one as 4.7->4.8 until 4.9 GA.

Author: Added a note with a "to-do" item for post-GA. Will make myself a task to track it. Thanks (as always0 for your very keen eye :)

Reviewer 3: that makes sence, thanks jeana.

> * For z-stream releases, for example, from 4.7.12 to 4.7.13, no permissions are added or changed, so the upgrade is not blocked.

Reviewer 3: the same issue as the above, is it better to change example `from 4.7.12 to 4.7.13` to `from 4.8.10 to 4.8.11`?

.Procedure

. Extract and examine the `CredentialsRequest` custom resource for the new release.
+
The _Manually creating IAM_ section of the installation content for your cloud provider explains how to obtain and use the credentials required for your cloud.

. Update the manually maintained credentials on your cluster:

** Create new secrets for any `CredentialsRequest` custom resources that are added by the new release image.

** If the `CredentialsRequest` custom resources for any existing credentials that are stored in secrets have changed their permissions requirements, update the permissions as required.

. When all of the secrets are correct for the new release, indicate that the cluster is ready to upgrade:

.. Log in to the {product-title} CLI as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.. Edit the `CloudCredential` resource to add an `upgradeable-to` annotation within the `metadata` field:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit cloudcredential cluster
----
+
.Text to add
+
[source,yaml]
----
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      cloudcredential.openshift.io/upgradeable-to: <version_number>
...
----
+

> Where `<version_number>` is the version you are upgrading to, in the format `x.y.z`. For example, `4.7.0` for {product-title} 4.7.0.

Reviewer 3: the same issue as the above, changing `4.7.0` to `4.9.0`

+
It may take several minutes after adding the annotation for the upgradeable status to change.

. Verify that the CCO is upgradeable:

.. In the the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, navigate to *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings*.

.. To view the CCO status details, click *cloud-credential* in the *Cluster Operators* list.

> .. If the *Upgradeable* status in the *Conditions* section is *False*, verify that the manually maintained credentials on your cluster match the updated `CredentialsRequest` custom resource for the new release.

Reviewer: Actually, the only thing keeping Upgradeable=False is whether the annotation is written correctly or not. There is nothing stopping an admin from lying about doing the pre-upgrade steps and annotating things so that CCO blindly marks itself Upgradeable=True. So perhaps, If Upgadeable is False, verify that the annotation applied above is free of typos.

Author: Appreciate the attention to detail :)

[id="manually-maintained-credentials-upgrade_{context}"]
= Upgrading clusters with manually maintained credentials

> The Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) `upgradable` status for a cluster with manually maintained credentials is `false` by default.

Reviewer 4: Just one question/nit comment. Should we use 'Upgradable' since the status itself is displayed as uppercase U? If you decide to make this change, then doing so across the board.
